What is cloud computing?
In the simple terms,cloud computing is technology where resources is provided as a service through internet to a user.

what are the cloud computing provider we had?
Amazon Web Services (AWS) (2006) started offering services.
Microsoft Azure.
Google Cloud.
Alibaba Cloud.
IBM Cloud.
Oracle.

Aws:
The full form of AWS is Amazon Web Services. It is a platform that offers flexible, reliable, scalable, easy-to-use and, cost-effective cloud computing services.

*In 2006, Amazon Web Services (AWS) began offering IT infrastructure services.

advantages of aws:
User-friendly (UI)
Flexible (ANYWHERE)
Secure 
Cost-effective (PAY AS YOU USE)
Reliable 
Scalable and Elastic 
Highly Performance.

Disadvantages of AWS
Limitations
Lack of Experts
Price Variations(region)
General Issues

Companies using AWS?
1) Netflix, 2)Adobe 3)pinterest 4) spotify 5) facebook 6) linkdin 7) NASA

how many cloud computing modules:
1.deployment module --->public cloud,private cloud, hybrid cloud.
2.service module.----> IAAS,PAAS,SAAS.

EC2: EC2 is a cloud platform provided by Amazon that offers secure, and resizable compute capacity.

BENFITS OF EC2:
1.Elastic instance scalable.(any shape).
2.Flexible(anywhere).
3.Completly Controlled.
4.Reliable (crushes hdd)
5.Secure   
6.Inexpensive (pay-as-you-use)
7.easy to start. 

Setup process:
1.choose AMI(amazon Machine Image).
2.Choose Instance Type
3.Configure Instance.
4.Add storage.
5.Add tags.
6.Configure Security Group
7.Lanch.

security group:
A security group acts as a firewall for your instance to control inbound and outbound traffic.



RDS:Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) makes database configuration, management, and scaling easy in the cloud. Automate tedious tasks such as hardware provisioning, database arrangement, patching

S3:Amazon S3 or Amazon Simple Storage Service is a service offered by Amazon Web Services that provides object storage through a web service interface.

EBS:Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) is a high-performance block storage solution used within Amazon EC2 for throughput and transaction workloads of any size, at any time. It handles a diverse range of workloads, such as relational and non-relational databases, and enterprise applications.

AMAZON S3 GLACIER: Amazon S3 Glacier is a secure, durable, and extremely low-cost Amazon S3 storage class for data archiving and long-term backup.

LAMBDA:

API GATEWAY:

elb:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YaHes97pnDg&ab_channel=Intellipaat